Earth, 2021, no educational system exists, islands of enlightenment are held around single teachers-enthusiasts, while the availability of knowledge has reached its maximum in the history of mankind.

Traditional schools and universities are a kargo-cult and an imitation of education, hidden behind formal procedures and existing only by inertia (except for rare non-systemic exceptions). Under these conditions we, professionals of different fields, who ourselves are able and able to reproduce thinking, culture, art, science and technology, take upon ourselves the responsibility to prepare future generations, not only our children, with whom we will naturally begin, but everyone who wishes to join the Metaeducation movement (Metaeducation Global Initiative).

We bring learning and work together in one process, different generations into one team, set the team an interesting and ambitious task, and lead the way to solve engineering questions so that in the process people themselves make lively theoretical generalizations, tied to practice and personal thought experience. Such theory will not be forgotten and will not be superfluous. But it is necessary to begin with examples of thinking of older comrades, to observe their successes and be inspired by their results, so that there is a desire first to help, and then to benefit the common cause, to show their abilities.

Meta because we ourselves will learn, and we will teach those who teach. The Greek word "τέχνη" [tékhnē] may be perceived now as homonymous with technology or engineering, but its meaning is art. We believe that scientific and technical knowledge and the humanities must be inseparably linked and cannot be well mastered separately. We do not separate theory and practice, training and application, learner and learner, the whole process is built on a real useful project that involves all ages and specialties. Training examples can only be used to teach to solve learning problems, and we want to move away from artificial conditions as much as possible and learn through experience and observation of experience gained. We don't simplify and distort knowledge by making it understandable for beginners; we keep in mind that it's harder to retrain than to assimilate advanced knowledge and practice at once. No cajoling, immediately throwing in the hardest problem, everyone will find their role in it, someone will start to solve it and someone will observe the solution. Depth of thought and parsing can be postponed, but the reality and complexity of the real task cannot be postponed.

Our foundations are a passion for our profession, a thirst for knowledge, and a love for the expression of human talent. We form a distributed system in different countries that works on common principles and share prepared materials. Students of any age and their parents can come together anywhere and start their own metaeducation section.

We assume that parents will take an active part in teaching their children themselves, but also invite specialists. We do away with outdated notions of education, such as class and group, year, semester and quarter, session, subject, course, and credit. Education should be continuous and seamless, from birth to death, with no formal division into preschool, school, higher and post-graduate. Everyone moves at their own speed, together with teachers, chooses only what interests them and forms a map and a detailed plan of mastered and planned knowledge, where each topic is recorded independently and there is an external evaluation. For example, this map may include "Arithmetic division" as well as "Color circle", "PID controller", "Correspondence of kings of the ancient world", "Lambda cube", "Invitation to execution", "Taking out the cycle invariant", "The tower of yellow crane", etc. The topics, of course, are built into a system; they form a cross-referenced tree (essentially a link graph) along which the student can navigate, forming a unique profession. Traffic cues can be suggested by teachers, algorithms, and machine learning models that we will develop. The level of understanding of each topic can have gradations from "got to know" to "taught another" and even "made a scientific contribution."

Trust in this system will be shaped by professional trust in the teachers who develop the program and deliver the lectures and workshops, trust in the parents who organize daily discussion, practice, and collaborative projects, and trust in the professionals in different fields whom we will invite regularly to talk about their work, why their work is needed, and why it might be of interest to others. Observing professionals who are passionate about their work and gradually engaging them in productive work is the basis of our approach, giving both motivation, an interesting process, and a useful result.

The economic model of metaeducation: is non-profit training, the entire payment is spent on mentoring time, household expenses and necessary materials. Methodological recommendations, video lectures and texts are prepared and posted free of charge by all who wish in open access with obligatory discussion in professional environment. The copyright to all materials is governed by free Creative Commons and MIT licenses.

Part of the practice will be to collect and organize information on the project. Thousands of sources of literature have now become available to us in electronic form, lectures in audio and video formats from all countries and in all languages, digitized treasures from different cultures and civilizations, but they are of interest to only a few. Communication and multimedia capabilities, in any phone that are already more powerful than the computing machines of the recent past, cloud technologies and neural networks, are used not to access knowledge or to create new ones, but to waste time and escape from the oppressive sense of meaninglessness of existence. One of the projects in the educational centers of Metarchy will be the creation of information systems for the educational process itself, as well as for the automation of information processing in medicine, production, transport, communication and other areas. List of projects: me-gi/Projects

We do not exclude mistakes and dead-end branches of knowledge from learning, because forgotten misconceptions are quickly repeated. Knowledge does not live in letters, but in constant reinterpretation and reproduction, and stale words lose or change their meaning.

We are not guided by the market value of the knowledge gained or by the prospects of admission to universities, we do not seek to prepare you for interviews for high-paying positions, but we are guided by the benefit that our students can bring to their loved ones, the community and all mankind. Together with you, we will create a new kind of production and a new form of economy built on knowledge and social utility rather than added value. Modern education is the falsification of the individual and the reproduction of bureaucratic ceremonies, the rewriting of notes, rote memorization without understanding, testing that determines only the ability to pass tests - this is what the nation-states offer us. Today's employers - most of the companies offering such tempting conditions for beginners - are places of voluntary alienation of the results of your work and complete personal degradation. You can experience it for yourself, but it is better not to lose years of your life and organize social enterprises with other students, it will be both more profitable and more interesting, but it requires a high level of responsibility and involvement in the overall result. You choose whether to be a cog in the mechanism of the market or an equal partner in a team of like-minded people.

Community contacts: Docs/Contacts.md
